# `CryptoMarket` - An Extraordinary NFT Marketplace Website
`CryptoMarket` is a Web 3.0 blockchain-based marketplace app where people can discover NFTs on the market, create their own NFTs, even purchase and sell their NFTs here.

This is a decentralized application powered by Ethereum and all transactions are made in Ether(ETH)
## Features
* This is a `React`-based website with `Next.js` framework.
* Utilize `Tailwind CSS` to construct designs of user interfaces
* This is a fully responsive website with light and dark modes that allow different user interface structures for different screen sizes
* Upload both images for the NFT and the whole NFT item to the InterPlanetary File System `IPFS` on`Infura` platform for the storage and peer-to-peer sharing of files.
* Using `Solidity` to create and implement the smart contract.
* Using `Hardhat` as an Ethereum development environment to run, test and deploy the smart contract.
* Using `MetaMask` to pair your crypto wallets for checking token balances and signing transactions to create, purchase and sell NFTs.
* Contracts are deployed to `Avalanche` which is a Web3 dApps platform that enable blockchain network to connect and scale
* Using `NPM` as the package management tool.
## Demo
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97903569/214473046-7a2b0f84-7023-425c-8692-a3ad06c20dc6.mp4
## How to use
First, you need to install the `MetaMask` Wallet extension on your browser. Please refer to this [Link](https://metamask.io/download/)

Please make sure you have enough funds (0.025 ETH) in your account when you create your NFT for the gas fee. Otherwise, the website will do nothing.

Every time you create, purchase, sell or resell NFTs, you need to pay 0.025ETH gas fee for processing.

For using search bar, clean the input before you make another input.
### Online Mode
Visit the website use this link [NFT Market](https://web3nftmarket.vercel.app/)

Link for the [Avalanche faucet](https://faucet.avax.network/). Using this to add test cryptocurrency to your account(only for testing on Testnet, no value on Mainnet)

Note that to check your NFTs that are selling on the market and the NFTs you owned, you need to have your own account on **MetaMask**. Also, you need to add the `Fuji(C-Chain)` network to your Metamask wallet 

When you create NFTs, please ensure you have enough funds in your account for the gas fee(0.025 ETH), which is the fee paid to Ethereum for processing NFTs

### Local Mode
Checkout the `localhost` branch on GitHub and clone this repository.  

You also need to create an IPFS storage on `Infura.io` and get projectId, projectSecret, Dedicated Gateway SubDomain. You need to put those in the `.env` file for the environment variable.

First you need to install dependencies by running the following on terminal **(you need to go to its root directory first)**
``` bash
npm install
```
Then you need to start the hardhat network on localhost 
``` bash
npx hardhat node
```
Then deploy the contract to the localhost network by
``` bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network localhost
```
Copy the address, where you deployed your contract (in the output from the terminal) to the `.env` file

Run the program by following commands to start this program.
``` bash
npm run dev
```
Please make sure your hardhat node is still running on localhost

Then you can import account from accounts generated by the `hardhat node` to your MetaMask Wallet and set the network to `localhost` on MetaMask.
